Roles, States, and Properties,
these are the building blocks of ARIA.
So all of the attributes that are defined
in the ARIA specification are roles,
states, or properties, such as
role-button or aria-hidden of true.
So roles are pretty straightforward in
that they are, what does the thing do?
Is it a button?
Is it a checkbox?
So, as I mentioned, the button element
has an implicit role of button.
The role of button will bolt it on, and
in the accessibility tree's view,
that's seamless.
It's pretty well supported, I mean,
I think you can do that pretty reliably.
But div role="button" is
not the whole picture, so
that's why we say use button first.
So, why would you even use that?
It'd be like if for some reason
you're building a custom component,
and you can't use HTML.
I mean, it better be a compelling reason,
but there's so
many constraints that we deal with in the
real world, that I'm sure it's come up.
I mean, it could be that you
have really annoying old styling
that you can't get rid of or something.
That's some technical debt that I
think would be worth facing, but
sometimes we have constraints.
So, I can think of another example.
I worked on, it was actually a desktop
application that output widgets.
So it was outputting web widgets
that you could embed, and
it exported divs for buttons.
And the fix in the actual
desktop software application to
output a button element was non-trivial.
I wasn't like, hey, I'm just gonna
go in and swap that element out.
No, it was old back-end code
to generate button elements.
So, yeah, we've definitely put an issue
in the backlog to do that work.
But in the meantime, are we just
gonna let button elements be divs?
No, I bolted on a button role, and
tab index, and a keyboard event,
and did the whole song and dance.
Well, we kind of did both things,
so that might be the solution.
If for some reason you're like,
we can't use buttons right now.
We are doing the work to upgrade
our infrastructure so that we can.
But in the meantime, maybe you bolt on
a button role and all of the other parts.
So when you're checking support for
an ARIA role, state, or
property, or you're wanting to use them,
you should check support.
So for something like aria-autocomplete or
aria-drag,
where you're like,
isn't there an ARIA attribute for x or
y that I saw on ARIA spec or
I remembered at one time?
It's good to do some research on it.
So the first site I would recommend
is called Accessibility Support,
or a11ysupport.io.
This is a community effort to,
basically, crowdsource,
it's like a caniuse.com for
ARIA attributes.
So I think the example I
had was aria-autocomplete.
Yikes, that's a no-go.
[LAUGH] Is it supported across the board
as either none or some partial support?
So I'd say, sorry, aria-autocomplete
attribute, that's just not gonna happen.
What would be another one?
I guess, aria-drag,
I don't think that's a thing.
aria-dropeffect, yeah, that one's not
documented, and probably not supported.
Whoa, I'm surprised about aria-hidden,
that's actually pretty well supported,
but there's no data on it.
So that's still kind of interesting.
Let's see, what'd be another one?
aria-label, all green, all good,
supported, pretty reliable.
You have to use aria-label
on the right role.
You can't put it onto a div,
but that's not a support issue,
that's just a technical requirement.
And it's interesting they
put screen reader support,
voice control support, aria-labelledby.
So this is some really helpful data.
Another one I've used this for
is aria-expanded or aria-haspopup.
So some of these things that we put on
custom little dropdowns and things.
Support's pretty good, but
we can go in and read more.
What are the things that it's not passing?
Simple trues or false seem pretty good,
aside from Narrator,
Orca, which is Linux or Android, TalkBack.
I could go test in some of those
if I was really concerned.
So I'm talking about how to prioritize.
This is one direction I could
go in to say, all right,
I wanna use this ARIA attribute to
communicate the state of this component.
I looked it up on
Accessibility Support IO,
and it looked green across the board,
except for Narrator and Edge.
I'm gonna go test over there and
see what happens.
So that's pretty cool.
I mean,
you should test it elsewhere too, but
this is kind of helpful data to digest and
apply.
So a11support.io, and
they are community-driven, so
I'm sure they would love contributions.
And then testing it in screen readers,
cuz that's where the impact is
really going to be felt,
is in assistive technology.
And that's also why it gets forgotten
[LAUGH] or screwed up, is that I think
developers, it's so easy to add ARIA,
but then the testing step gets missed.
So we want to make sure we're testing it,
or just don't include it at all.
I learned that kind of
early on in my career,
that I could make it a lot
worse without realizing it.
So, yeah, ARIA should just kind of
accept or remember that it should
come with a bit of caution [LAUGH] or
some testing time on your calendar.
And then you can read up on mailing
lists like the ARIA GitHub.
The NVDA GitHub is really great,
that's where they develop the Windows
screen reader, NVDA, it's open source.
It is a treasure trove of information over
there, especially for Windows issues.
That if you're primarily a Mac developer,
and you start to test on Windows,
you can dispel some misconceptions
just by reading the NVDA GitHub.
Cuz somebody's probably had the same
question as you, and you can go and
read, and it is very helpful.
And then the WebAIM email discussion list,
they have decades, I wanna say.
I don't know how many years of archives,
but
they have email archives from a very
long time ago that have discussions
from people who work on browsers,
work on screen readers.
The accessibility community includes
people who developed all of
these specs and all of these tools.
It's really cool that there's
answers from people that are so
informed and instrumental.
So you can use ARIA in your CSS selectors.
It's a pretty cool technique to do,
I guess,
depending on how your
styling is generated.
But like any attribute selector,
you can match your CSS to certain ARIA.
So for example,
if I have a custom role of checkbox,
sure, I could add a class or
an ID or something.
I could also just match it
based on whether it has a role.
I've done this when I need to
differentiate certain inputs from other
inputs, I'll end up using
these attribute selectors.
But the ARIA ones also, I could
style a disabled checkbox that way.
Increasingly, a lot of codebases
are using things like Tailwind, so
you might not have these
types of selectors.
But Tailwind does a pretty
good job of incorporating
accessibility into what they're doing.
Love it or hate it,
they are at least making it possible for
us to create similar experiences.
I didn't ever think I would be
a Tailwind person, by the way,
just a little side note, but
it's been kind of awesome.
It does get in my way, though.
[LAUGH] Okay, so another example could
be styling off of aria-expanded.
That's another one of those states.
If it's true or false,
you can change how it's styled, question?
>> What about hidden anchor elements for
screen readers,
like skip to main content and
skip navigation?
>> Yes, so
the question was about skip links.
We are going to talk about skip
links in the next section.
So, with those,
we actually don't want them to be hidden.
We wanna make them usable by
sighted keyboard users, too.
So I think there used to be an approach
to skip links where we would put visually
hidden on them for some reason.
And let's just get that out of there,
no more of that.
[LAUGH] I don't know where that came from,
but
skip links are super useful when you can
see the screen and you wanna skip around.
If you can't use a mouse,
we actually would benefit from
some skip links on these slides.
So, yeah, we wanna make them visible, but
we will talk about skip
links a little bit later on.
All right, so accessible names and
descriptions.
ARIA brings with it a pretty
foundational concept here, and
we've already seen some of it.
Accessible names apply to links, buttons,
form controls, images,
tables, field sets, legends.
Anything that has what we call a label,
quote unquote,
has a technical term of accessible name.
So if you hear that, that's what that is.
It's basically the label for something.
And only certain elements can be labeled.
You can't put aria-label on a div
unless it has a certain role on it, but
that's what that concept is.
There's also the concept of
an accessible description.
That if something has a label and a title,
the title will be read kind of after
the initial text, after a bit of a delay.
And that's what's called
an accessible description.
Title will do it,
aria-describedby will do it.
They are configurable
on the screen reader,
though, so you don't wanna count on
descriptions always being there.
So aria-label, aria-labelledby,
aria-describedby, you can label things,
and we've seen some of this already.
But I can bolt on a label pretty easily.
The risk with aria-label sometimes,
and I saw this in a codebase recently,
is people set it and then they forget it,
and it's not relevant text anymore.
So I have a slight preference for
aria-labelledby,
cuz it will just always stay
up to date with whatever.
If this All About Wombats
heading is visible, and
it gets out of date,
that'll probably get fixed.
But then the accessibility
connection is still there.
It's just gonna
programmatically point to that.
So I think that's pretty awesome.
And then aria-describedby,
it's very similar to labelledby.
It just creates that
description instead of a name.
So as we saw in the Chrome DevTools,
that will show us which thing wins.
So when we have multiple,
this tiny screenshot has aria-label,
it has title, placeholder,
maybe more than one title.
I'm not really sure what's
happening there, but
we can see the description is helper text.
The name is text on this
very generic example.
But that tool is excellent for
helping you see which thing wins,
because something has to win.
And in the enterprise workshop, also,
we are going to dive way deeper
into this topic, gets pretty geeky.